---
title: "Logic Sim"
date: 2024-08-14
categories: [portfolio,software]
tags: [portfolio,solo,software,godot]
comments: true
description: "Work in progress logic simulation program..."
---
Today I started rewatching the series 'How computers work' by Sebastian Lague, and wanted to experiment myself. I first started with using his software which he developed for his videos, but found it very clunky and not fun at all. So I started wondering: How hard could it be...? Turns out it is quite hard. But it is definitely also very interesting. Especially from the systems engineering perspective, since everything has to be modular and dynamic, since everything will be manipulated by the user. There are many things one does not think about when starting a larger project like this. Some problems, like how to save and reconstruct building blocks (or 'chips') are more obvious than others like some kind of grid snapping system, which is both flexible but also usable. The latter is complicated since everything, the terminals (or contact points) the blocks and also the wires have to line up on the grid. The first problem is complicated since blocks can be used recursively by eg. building a NAND gate and then reusing that one to build something else. In the end it turned out that the best way is for the user to start with only AND and NOT blocks, and when they are constructing the first block for each output to save through which inputs influence them through which gates. Then if they are reusing that block we can just reuse their logical expressions for each of their outputs thus constructing expressions like (not ((not i0) and (not i1)), which would represent and or block.

This project is currently very work in progress. I am currently working on being able to load blocks from their json-formatted savefile, in a way where you can then edit them and resave the modified version of them. Another one of my current challanges is creating terminal groups (as seen in Sebastians video), but these should be saved persistenlty unlike with his software. 

## Interested?
Check the project out on [GitHub](github.com/gro-david/logic-sim). I would be very happy if you gave it a star.
